# Data Provenance Standards Technical Committee  
## Meeting Minutes â€“ April 22, 2025

**Chairs:** Bryan Bortnick, Lisa Bobbitt, Fotis Psallidas  

**Presentation used during the meeting:**  
[View Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wOMNZ0w20vILf2OE_TmhTwZ7eOw7YPvcU25_CheSIZo/edit?usp=sharing)

---

### Attendees  
(*Denotes voting members)

- Lisa Bobbitt*  
- Bryan Bortnick*  
- Mic Bowman  
- Carlyn Connolly*  
- Kelly Cullinane  
- Michele Drgon  
- Kate Gallo*  
- Stefan Hagen*  
- Andy Hannah*  
- Jassim Happa  
- David Kemp*  
- Peter Koen  
- Bryan Kyle*  
- Greg Ott*  
- Kristina Podnar*  
- Fotis Psallidas*  
- Wyatt Schroth*  
- Kelsey Schulte*  
- Duncan Sparrell*  
- Laurie Tyzenhaus*  
- Roman Zhukov*  

**DPS TC Voting Rights Tracking sheet:**  
[View Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HQXa69nD3AI5DoR6iOpUgrICzEj9erCMoaKhdgUbKzc/edit?usp=sharing)

---

### Agenda

- Welcome & Introductions  
- Roll Call and Quorum Confirmation  
- Approval of April 8 Meeting Minutes  
- Status of Contributions from Data & Trust Alliance  
- Discussion of Proposed Work Products  
- Repository and GitHub Organization  
- Committee Specification Structure and Tooling

---

### Minutes

**Roll Call**  
Roll call took place, and a quorum was confirmed with 18 out of 20 voting members present. Per the OASIS TC process, this satisfies the requirement for conducting official business.

**Recording Approval**  
No objections. Recording initiated for note-taking purposes.

**Meeting Minutes Approval**  
April 8, 2025 meeting minutes adopted without objection.

**Contributions Update**  
Kristina confirmed Data & Trust Alliance contributions include:
- Executive Overview  
- Data Provenance Standards Documents  
- Metadata Generator Tool (Azure-hosted)  
- Use Cases  
- GitHub zip archive of the full contribution

Duncan clarified that uploading via the document repository with email notification qualifies as a formal contribution under OASIS IP rules. These materials became usable in TC discussions but have not yet been formally accepted as TC work products.

---

### Motions Passed

- **Establish an open repository for Metadata Generator:**  
  Motion passed to create a separate OASIS Open repository for hosting the Metadata Generator tool as open source.

- **Establish GitHub pages for a public-facing executive brief:**  
  A separate repo will be created for outward communications and adoption materials based on the executive briefing.

- **Provisional acceptance of base documents:**  
  A provisional agreement was reached to use the Data Provenance Specification and Use Cases documents as baseline input for committee specifications (to be formalized later).

- **Standing rule on pull request process:**  
  Pull requests to draft specs require a second and a one-week public review for consensus before merging.  
  Repository maintainers may maintain the contributions directory without full TC approval.

---

### Key Discussion Points

- **OASIS Work Product Process:**  
  Duncan and Kelly clarified the process of formalizing committee specifications, including the need for selecting editors and file formats.  
  Kelly will provide template documents for TC members to review prior to finalizing work product structures.

- **Spec Structuring Recommendations:**  
  Treating the specification and use cases as separate committee specifications was recommended.  
  Discussion of using an information model as a central artifact from which different data encodings (JSON, XML, etc.) are derived will be taken up outside of this meeting.

- **Work Product Definitions (Pending Formal Motion):**
  - Data Provenance Specification (Standards Track)  
  - Use Cases (Standards Track or Committee Note)  
  - Metadata Generator (Open-Source Tool)  
  - Public-Facing Executive Brief (Awareness/Adoption, not a standard)

---

### Action Items

- **Kelly:** Send out OASIS spec templates to the mailing list.  
- **Kristina:** Coordinate uploading contributions and sharing access.  
- **TC Members:** Review materials and prepare feedback before the next meeting.  
- **Kelly:** Send calendar invites for recurring meetings.  
- **Kristina:** Initiate call for spec editors via email.  
- **Absent TC Members:** Must advise if the proposed biweekly meeting cadence at 10am EDT does not work for their schedules; otherwise, cadence will be adopted.

---

### Upcoming Meetings

- **Date:** May 6, 2025  
- **Time:** 10:00 AM EDT  
- **Cadence:** Biweekly  
- **Note:** Members are to notify the TC if the time zone poses challenges.
