# Data Provenance Standards Technical Committee Meeting Minutes

**Meeting Date:** June 3, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM EDT / 14:00 UTC / 16:00 CET / 7:00 PDT

## Chairs
- Bryan Bortnick (IBM)
- Lisa Bobbitt (Cisco)
- Fotis Psallidas (Microsoft)

## Secretary
- Kelly Cullinane (OASIS Open), substitute for Kristina Podnar (Data & Trust Alliance)

**Presentation:** [Google Slides](#)

---

## I. Call to Order and Welcome

- Meeting called to order by Bryan, Lisa, and Fotis.
- Permission to record meeting was requested and granted.

---

## II. Attendance

- Attendance recorded via: [OASIS Attendance Portal](https://groups.oasis-open.org/communities/community-home/recent-community-events?communitykey=2c60b2cf-45d3-48cd-8594-0194f182b33d)
- **Quorum:** Reached with 14 of 18 voting members present.
- **Leave of Absence:** None  
- **New Voting Rights:** None  
- **Lost Voting Rights:** Saira Jesani, Greg Ott  
- **At Risk of Losing Voting Rights:** Laurie Tyzenhaus, Kristina Podnar, Kate Gallo  

### Present Voting Members

| Given Name | Family Name | Affiliation      | Role          |
|:-----------|:------------|:-----------------|:--------------|
| Andy       | Hannah      | Blue Street Data | Voting Member |
| Bryan      | Bortnick    | IBM              | Co-Chair      |
| Bryan      | Kyle        | IBM              | Voting Member |
| Carlyn     | Connolly    | D&TA             | Voting Member |
| David      | Kemp        | NSA              | Voting Member |
| Duncan     | Sparrell    | sFractal         | Voting Member |
| Fotis      | Psallidas   | Microsoft        | Co-Chair      |
| Jay        | White       | Microsoft        | Voting Member |
| Kelsey     | Schulte     | Intel            | Voting Member |
| Lisa       | Bobbitt     | Cisco            | Co-Chair      |
| Roman      | Zhukov      | Red Hat          | Voting Member |
| Stefan     | Hagen       | Individual       | Voting Member |
| Wyatt      | Schroth     | Blue Street Data | Voting Member |

### Present Non-Voting Members

| Given Name | Family Name  | Affiliation |
|:-----------|:-------------|:------------|
| Florencio  | Cano Gabarda | Red Hat     |
| Gaurav     | Srivastava   | Siemens     |
| Mic        | Bowman       | Intel       |

### OASIS Staff

- Kelly Cullinane

---

## III. Agenda

- Welcome & Introductions
- Roll Call and Quorum Confirmation
- PRs and Proposals since Last Meeting
- Fork & Pull Process for Repo Management
- “Data Provenance Standards” Naming
- Progress Updates:
  - Executive Briefing
  - Use Cases
  - Metadata Model
  - Socialization and Adoption
- Wrap-up and Next Steps

---

## IV. PRs and Proposals Since Last Meeting

- **Fork & Pull Process:** Duncan withdrew suggestion.
- **Naming Decision:** Specification renamed to "Data Provenance" (dropped "standards").
- **Open PRs:** No discussion; to be closed this week
  - PR#21 – FAQ on data provenance standards
  - PR#22 – FAQ on benefits *(merged)*
  - PR#23 – FAQ on security/compliance
  - PR#24 – FAQ on 'us'
  - PR#25 – FAQ on 'other orgs'
  - PR#26 – FAQ on CoSAI
  - PR#27 – FAQ on OSIM *(merged)*
  - PR#28 – FAQ on OTDI
  - PR#29 – FAQ on MIT DPI *(merged)*
  - PR#30 – FAQ numbers in README

---

## V. Workstream Updates

### Executive Briefing

- Direction is user-friendly, less technical  
- Coordination with OASIS marketing underway  
- Updates will be reviewed by TC  

### Use Cases

- Organized by Lisa via mailing list  
- Contribution template available in GitHub  

### Metadata Model

- Designed to empower SMEs  
- Trinity considering split model for clarity  
- Goal is simplicity and usability  

---

## VI. Motions Passed

- None

---

## VII. Key Discussion Points

- Fotis to contribute internal use cases  
- PR#20 approved to merge via list discussion  
- Github Issue #7 (Information Model) received support  
- Workstream to identify what to model  
- Socialization Strategy:
  - Lisa + Kristian developing story template
  - Combine with Executive Briefing
  - Communications to precede specification finalization
  - Desire for coordinated visuals/logo

---

## VIII. Action Items

| Owner       | Action |
|-------------|--------|
| Kelly       | Confirm GitHub naming with Kristina |
| Lisa        | Organize use case workstream meeting |
| Fotis       | Notify Kelly if external guest is confirmed |
| Kelly/Fotis/Kristina | Ensure guest documentation is accurate |
| David Kemp  | Update model with new spec name |
| Kristina    | Discuss modeling strategy with Fotis |
| Kelly       | Connect Lisa & Kristina with Jane Harnad for logo |

---

## IX. Upcoming Meetings

- **Next Meeting:** June 17, 2025  
- **Time:** 10:00 AM EDT / 14:00 UTC  
- **Cadence:** Biweekly  
- **Note:** Notify TC if time zone is problematic.

---
